

array.filter()

The array.filter() method creates a new array containing only elements that meet a specified condition.

    Reference Array.filter() – MDN

array.map()

The array.map() method transforms each element of an array using a provided function and returns a new array with the transformed elements. The original array is not modified, 
and the new array has the same number of elements as the original.

    Reference Array.map() – MDN

array.reduce()

The array.reduce() method reduces an array to a single value by executing a reducer function on each element. The reducer function takes four arguments: accumulator, 
current value, current index, and source array. The function's returned value updates the accumulator, which is carried through each iteration and becomes the final result.

    Reference Array.reduce() – MDN


for the example on the array.filter, they have the example of 
    let namesB = names.filter(name => name.charAt(0) === 'B');

the let connotates a variable being made, namesB is the variable (specifically a new array being made), names.filter calls the function, name => takes one of the variables in the array, 
name.charAt(0) takes the first letter of the variable, === 'B' checks if the first letter of the variable matches capital b. If so it gets added to the new array being made.

to note, the name can be anything I am guessing. it is like i in foreach loops.


because I better understand what is going on and I actually know how to get what is wanted, my guesstimate is
    let namesLength = names.array(name => name.length)
        although I guessed I would need parantheses around the first name in there, the filter didn't so I didn't know for certain.
        Also I forgot to add an ending semicolon.

for the array.map(), the example is
    let nameLengths = names.map((name) => name.length);

the let connotates a variable being made, namesLength is the name of the variable (specifically an array being made), names.map is calling a function,
(name) => is taking one of the variables from the initial array, name.length is setting the value in the new array to be the length of each name in the original array.

for the array.reduce() my guesstimate would be
    let averageStringLength = names.reduce(0, name.length)
    This is too short, but I really don't know what I am doing with this one.

the example given is 
    names.reduce((total, name) => total + name.length, 0) / names.length;
    The initial value for the accumulator is set to 0. Inside the reducer function, total represents the accumulated sum of string lengths, 
    and name represents each individual name in the array. The reducer function adds the length of each name to the total in each iteration 
    (equivalent to total += name.length).

ok, so I think I can explain it. the names.reduce((total, name) is initializing the function with two variables. => total + name.length, 0) is telling it the starting value is zero
and then it is adding the names number length to the total. the / names.length; then divides the total of all the names lengths by the amoung of names in the array.